We just did depth-first traversal.
So let's hop down here and
do breadth-first traversal.
Going back to our little fun tree here,
same tree,
what if I want you to look at
the nearest nodes first, right?
So that,
the nearest nodes to 8 are 3 and 10.
And then 1, 6, 14, and then 4,7,13, right?
So we're actually moving
down level by level, right?
This is called a breadth-first
traversal because we went for
breadth first as opposed to those which
were going as deep as possible first.
Now we're trying to go as
close as possible first.
Okay, so a breadth-first traversal
of this array is going to be 8,
3, 10, 1, 6, 14, 4, 7, 13.
So how do you do that?
Well, we're gonna do it with a queue.
So a queue, if you remember,
the first item that you add to it is the
first item that you get out of it, right?
It's kinda like standing in line, right,
the first person who stands in line is
the first person that gets on the ride or
on whatever.
So what we're gonna do is we're
going to add 8 to our queue.
And then we're going to pull off 8,
add it to our array, and
then we're going to enqueue
both of its children.
So we're gonna to add 3 and
10 to our queue.
We're then going to process 3, right?
And then we're going to
enqueue both of it's children.
So our queue right now will be 10,
1, 6, right?
So on and so forth.
Every time that you pull a node off,
you're gonna grab its value, you're gonna
add both of its children to the queue, and
then just keep processing
until the queue is empty.
So, start by adding 8
to the queue like this.
Process 8, and when I say process, I just
mean add it to the final array, right?
So we process 8.
So we add that to the final array
which is equal to 8 right now.
And then we enqueue 3 and
10 to the processing queue.
So we have 3 and
10 in our queue right now.
We're going to dequeue 3,
which is the first item in the array.
And the queue right now
is just gonna be 10.
We're gonna enqueue 3's children.
So we're gonna have 10, 1, and
6 in our array right now in our queue,
and we're gonna add 3 to the final array.
So we have 8 and 3.
Okay, we're gonna dequeue 10,
this one here.
Dequeue 10, so the queue right
now is just gonna be 1 and 6.
We're gonna add 10's
children to the queue.
So, it's gonna be 1,
6, and 14 in the queue.
And we're gonna add 10
to the final array here.
So we have a 8, 3, 10, right?
8, 3, and 10.
We're gonna dequeue 1,
which is the first one in here in
the queue of things to process.
And the queue now is just 6 and 14.
We're gonna dequeue 10, we did that.
We're gonna queue 1's children.
I doesn't have any children,
so nothing gets added.
We're gonna then add 1 to the final array,
we end up with 8, 3, 10, and 1, right?
And I hope you're seeing the pattern here,
which you pull off an item of the queue,
you add it to the final array, and
then you enqueue it's children.
And you just keep doing that.
It's not recursive, it's iterative.
And you just keep doing that until you've
gone through everything in your queue.
So again, our final array here will be 8,
3, 10, 1, 6, 14, 4, 7, 13.
So you might ask now,
why is this any different or
better than depth-first traversals, right?
Why do I need to learn four
different ways to traverse things?
Well, this is really good for
nearness, right?
What if I wanna find, I don't know,
the nearest 6 to the 8, right?
Now, if I was doing
depth-first traversal and
I had a 6 way down here that
was super deep in the array,
I would find that one first, right,
because depth is gonna go deep first.
So you need to do something
like breadth-first traversal.
This actually ends up being one of the
more useful ones that I'm teaching you,
because we're gonna do pathfinding and
graphs here in just a second,
which use breadth-first
traversal quite a lot.
So if this isn't quite concrete
why this is useful, believe me,
in the next two lessons, you're gonna find
out very concretely why this is useful.